Wasiq Sohail
CS 342

Sections 10.1, 10.4.1 & 26.1.1–2

1a. Name the three basic approaches to database programming.

i. Embed database commands in a general purpose language.
ii. Using a library that calls the database functions and classes
iii. Design a new language 100% compatible with the database.

1b. Explain the concepts of:

i. impedance mismatch: When there are differences in data types between the database and 
					the programming language.

ii. stored procedures: Database programs that exist in the DBMS layer

iii. triggers: An action that occurs on a database after an event under specific
				conditions implicitly and automatically.

2a. Compare and contrast:

i. procedural vs non-procedural languages.

A procedural language tells the system to do in order to reach some result, while a 
non-procedural language just tells the system what it needs, and then the system finds
some means to reach that result.

ii. client-side vs server-side database programming.

Server-side programming reduces the amount of information that needs to be sent back
and forth over a network and reduces memory allocation in clients since the programming
is executed on the server's side.

Client-side programming allows for more dynamic, flexible usage for the users and 
allows instant feedback, reduces server load

2b. Explain why one would want to do server-side programming using PL/SQL.

PL/SQL is built to work with SQL so there would be fewer problems

2c. For each of the following code segments, identify the type of the database object and explain what it does.

i.
CREATE PROCEDURE limited_count (limit IN integer) AS
BEGIN
  FOR i IN 1..limit LOOP
      dbms_output.put_line(i);
  END LOOP;
END;

This is a procedure that prints out each number between 1 and limit.
 
ii.
BEGIN
  dbms_output.put_line('Hello, PL/SQL!');
END;
 
This is an anonymous block that prints Hello, PL/SQL!
 
iii.
CREATE TRIGGER log_trigger
  BEFORE INSERT OR UPDATE OF lastName ON Person
  FOR each row
BEGIN
  dbms_output.put_line('Hello, name change!');
END;

This is a trigger that prints 'Hello, name change!' every time lastname is
inserted or updated.