1a. Data are known recordable facts and databases are colections of related data that have been organized. Database systems consists of
	databases as well as the means to manipulate, view and modify the data within its component databases. Information systems 
	include the database systems and all of the non-electronic components that go into management such as the people and various
	physical processes and hierarchies.

1b. Database systems have persistence so the exist outside of the execution of file systems and data structures and also have data 
	abstraction which allows 

1c. The various stakeholders of databases are the different types of users and manageres of the system. Casual users are users who do infrequent 
	and varied operations on the database system. Naive users do continual simple "canned" operations on the system. Sophisticated users are 
	users who are very familiar with the system to complete complex tasks. Standalone users utilize personal databases that are easy to use.

2a. High level models don't rely on describing concepts in a way that properly represents data, instead portraying information in a way more
	easily understood by people. Conversely, Low level models providees conspets that describe how the information is stored on the physical
	medium. Representational data models exist between the prior two, hiding the deeper details while still being implementable. Figure 2.1 is
	a representational data model as it implementable, but hides how the information is stored.

2b. Three-schema architecture is a tool that is used to understand how a database is to be used by dividiing its physical data demands, what can be
	calculated from the data, and what the users expect from the database. The three levels are the internal level, the conceptual level, and the 
	external level. The internal level is the physical storage structure and its layout. The conceptual level indicates the relationships that
	occut between the different entities in the data. The external level is concerned with the various views and what type of information it conveys.

2c. Web applications usually use a three tier architecture which consists of the client, application and database servers. The database server is the origin
	of all data used by the application and client servers and is centralized. The application server runs application programs and storing rules used to 
	access data from the database server. The client server is the server from the user's end that sends the queries for data.
